I walked you through the basic features of promises
and with that, this set up here when we register a service worker should make more sense. Here
we first of all access the service worker, then we call register and register is just a method call on
service worker.
This method happens to return a promise and therefore we can call then to react to the case or to the
event that the promise resolved. In this case, this will be done automatically by Javascript when the service
worker is registered,
so this service worker API is exposing a promise to us here.
We could also chain catch to handle the case that this failed,
so here catch with a function which is executed in that case would allow us to catch any cases where for
some reason, we're not able to register a service worker, then this would be executed, shouldn't occur
too often though.
And we also use a promise in the service worker, here when we respond with fetch. I'll come back to fetch
in the next lectures but basically respond with expects a promise because respond with expects asynchronous
code and this is handled via promises in service workers,
there we work a lot with promises. Fetch returns a promise which will resolve as soon as this network
request is done
and later in the course, we will also use then and catch on fetch to handle these manually.
So this is another place where we use a promise,
the one thing it has in common with the registration is that we don't create the promise on our own
as we do down there.
As I mentioned, you don't do that too often, only if you want to wrap your own asynchronous code into
a promise but a lot of the built-in APIs exposed by Javascript in the browser use promises and
that's why you have to be aware of what happens behind the scenes, they resolve or reject and how you
can handle these values with
then, the second argument to then or better than that, catch in error cases.
So this is promises
and with that of the way, let's move on to the fetch API next.
We already use it here in the service worker and it's important to understand what fetch actually does.